the US economy is in shambles it's
collapsing or it's the best it's ever
been you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you it really depends
who you ask when we look at the certain
set of data we get one picture and you
look over here and it's very different
I'm going to show you two sets of data
that's going to make your head spin
you're going to ask wait a second what
wait why have they been telling me that
piece of information and not this when
you're showing me something's off I'm
going to show you exactly what's going
on right here today let's begin with
this soft Landing for the economy how
about no Landing the US is still growing
fast the economy grew at a gangbuster
4.9% pace in the third quarter and a
robust 3.3% clip in the final 3 months
of
2023 wow isn't that
fantastic right I mean it's growing
look at this I mean the job situation is
looking really really good if I take the
u3 unemployment rate that's provided by
the BLS the Bureau of Labor Statistics
unemployment is near a record low record
low right now absolutely right if I'm
going to take that information at face
value something is unusual though
because uh there's some other data that
shows a very different
mixed signal that I think everybody
should be aware of you're seeing this
all over the place Tech layoff scale to
a 3/4 High not just Tech but we see many
different types of businesses laying
people off there's something else though
you know where I'm getting with this all
right car insurance costs to rise in
2024 thanks to inflation and rampant
Auto thefts people are experiencing High
higher prices on everything it seems
rates could Rise by as much as 25%
already we can see that these are up by
the way it's US and Canada everywhere
else think about that the prices you pay
today we can experience much higher
prices in the coming months and let's
say year you know into
2025 that would be
devastating well that's not a sign of
strength I wouldn't say so there's
something going on well certainly we
have seen corporate profits rise to
levels we have never seen before that is
uh not a good thing of course for the
for the individual the economy the jobs
at these businesses they're laying
people off in many cases at least
they're starting to trim they're they're
putting a hold on new
hires something else has happen here
what is it payrolls versus unemployment
it says employment is lagging jobs by 9
million right now huh what does that
mean we have the establishment survey
and the household survey like they say
here employment and jobs okay so 9
million you got that number right like a
huge difference and is it funny that
since 2020 since this chaos has happened
that it's just getting wider and wider
and wider and wider and over the past
several months it's kind of just slowed
down to nothing and by the way the jobs
that are being had right now oh my
goodness I you're going to see this but
just take this what it is okay when they
give you the reports they show you you3
unemployment rate they give you these
like really really manipulated stats
when we talk about employment
think about this if I go out and get not
one job this month but I get two jobs
this month that is included in the
statistics of jobs created two jobs but
I'm only one
person that throws off everything what
if I had three jobs what if there's 10
of us or a million of us that have two
jobs three four jobs that is being
included in the jobs so you get a skewed
image of what's actually going on with
the job C look if I have two jobs what
does it say about the first one what
does it say about if I have three jobs
what does it say about the other two
that one job is not enough to pay my
bills now maybe I want a second job
maybe it's a passion maybe I want to go
work at the golf course on the weekends
because I love golf and I could just
enjoy myself there it's a fun thing
that's different but how many people do
that not that many people want to relax
on the weekend they want to take time
with the family they don't want to
necessarily be working seven days a week
from morning till night that's not what
most people want to do they want to put
in their hours they want to go home they
want to do their thing they got to work
on their own home they want to work on
their relationships all that stuff we
got a problem though because the you
know this skewing is is for many
different factors when you look at
different pieces information you start
to get this and 9 million is
Extreme but this is where it gets real
interesting as well job changes since
one year ago since February 2023 all job
gains in the past year have been
parttime work part-time work now that is
not good you've actually were actually
Less in terms of full-time workers less
than a year ago but
unemployment oh yeah that u3
unemployment rate that's super low do
you see the problem here do you see the
concern what do you think the biggest
problem with this is let me know put
that down there in the comments let's
like why is this a concern hey people
are employed why is this a
concern you could see as well here
full-time uh is while it's in the
negative the part-timers there are jobs
being created temporary jobs are being
created that's good that's better than
no jobs okay
certainly I I'll say that but what does
it say about the strength of the economy
I think you got a problem this is just
showing us some inflation in in
different ways but this is cocoa Futures
looking at chocolate prices of course
that's just one aspect we' never seen
them this high before ever 60% of the
world's Coco coming from one area and if
you got a problem there because of
drought because of flooding because of
you know uh it's the the Red Sea today
it's the Suez Canal tomorrow one by one
by one we got problems that have just
been stacking up it's and it's for Cocoa
it's for oil it's for whatever right
there's all these things are stacking we
need a break we need to let the pressure
off but it seems to just be adding up
particularly since 2020 this is the
ground beef prices that have been going
up so people are paying more than ever
before for simple
things and it shows up in different
statistics the
manufacturing um Texas manufacturing
Outlook survey production index doesn't
matter when we look at pmis when we look
at all these different indicators
they're all kind of showing us a
contraction right now and that in my
opinion is a big concern because you can
see that data piling up all over the
place and for so many people they don't
realize what the circumstances will do
for them but the employment is really a
real Telltale sign of what's Happening
you need to get your financial situation
in order how can you do that number one
you got to cut expenses wherever you can
that's the first thing the second thing
is try to increase your income how can
you do that I've been talking about this
for years by the way cutting from the
bottom you got to buy in bulk you got to
do what you can I just did a video you
know few days ago now where I broke that
down I have my notepad if you didn't
watch that one my goodness I hope you
will but I broke down exactly what you
can do um you know buy and bulk and all
these things you got to increase your
income as best you can I understand
that's easier said than done you could
do that in your own position you could
start to learn to do something on the
side people have a skill people have a
passion and you could learn to make
money with that do you know how to play
guitar do you know how to play piano do
you know how to play the tube
that is something that people want to
know use that skill you could do that
online I know people that do that online
uh or you could do that in person do
that do that do whatever you can and
it's something that's valuable to people
so bring the value that you have as a
person to people okay that's that's
that's beneficial you're it's a win-win
circumstance okay so that's just one
thing of course I have my services that
I have at the money GPS live what I do
is unlike know things that we just don't
see that around I I wish there was more
of it but we just see nonsense and of
course um you know it's it's really
there's a lot of misinformation that's
going on any alternative news and I wish
it wasn't so but that's the world we
live in today okay if you appreciate
this information hit the thumbs up
button that's how you support this
channel Thumbs Up Button thumbs up
button I want to thank you for being
here today and don't forget get to come
back and see me tomorrow the money GPS
all right take care